[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: We're gonna move
on to destructuring arrays now.
So here's a basic example, okay?
Pretty simple though,
like I got an array 1 to 10.
I want a variable called the first,
second, and
tenth
>> Aaron Frost: And
I'm just gonna pull them out
of this array, nums, okay?
And I can log them and
they're the right values.
So if you wanna skip one,
you just leave an empty comma in there.
[COUGH]
Again, new syntax you'll notice.
We got curly braces on the left-hand
side of an assignment expression.
That's happened before,
but not in this way.
So before, you could be like,
array sub 0 = 1.
So you've had curly braces before but
not like this, right?
Not in the destructuring pattern.
So there is kind of some
new syntax to this and
I think it's all fairly simple to grok.
Do you guys think it's simple, right?
>> Off Camera 1: There's no,
sorry, with the comma,
is that really the way to do it,
or is there a more aesthetically pleasing-
>> Aaron Frost: What,
you think my code's ugly, what?
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Aaron Frost: You think my code's
ugly?
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Aaron Frost: Yeah, no.
No, no, no, this is how it works.
This is how it is.
>> Off Camera 1: Okay.
>> Aaron Frost: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Off Camera 1: And you also really have
to count.
>> Aaron Frost: Yeah,
I mean if you knew there was ten things
and you knew you wanted the tenth one,
and you didn't care about the middle ones,
then yeah, that's what you'd do.
So, does that look better than
saying tenth = array sub 9?
Probably not, but who knows.
I don't know, you guys will know.
>> Off Camera 2: And
there's no way to map with the object
destructuring, you couldn't do like,
indexed to variable name or anything?
Like 0 to first, 1 to second.
>> Aaron Frost: I don't know, but
I hope so.
I don't think so though.
>> Off Camera 3: Is there a way to find
out the last?
>> Off Camera 1: That's already mapping,
right?
>> Aaron Frost: No, so
I've kind of thrown this concept
of patterns out to you guys.
It's not like regular expression, like
where it can kinda do a ton of things.
You kinda need to know
what you're looking for.
When you're using these patterns,
it's not like give me any random thing.
Like in JavaScript, we don't just
pass random objects into functions.
The function coming in,
you kinda know what it is, right?
I know this is a user thing and it's
gonna have an ID, and a name and stuff.
So you kinda know what's coming in,
and if you don't,
then patterns isn't gonna
solve your question.
You need something else, maybe template
strings with their DSL function might do
it, but we're not gonna cover that today.
Okay, so no.
No, I hope so,
someone said can I destructure
the tenth thing to a different name?
I mean, I am kind of doing that already,
I'm pulling the array sub 0 out and
putting it into a variable name first.
So I am kind of naming
them as I pull them out.
So that's already happening.
Yeah?
>> Off Camera 2: You just chose first,
second, and tenth to make it
easier which position it is?
>> Aaron Frost: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Off Camera 2: Okay.
>> Aaron Frost: You don't actually,
I mean the word first
doesn't mean anything.
It's arbitrary, right?
It could be foo or bar.
I just did first, second, and tenth just
you guys would know this is the first one,
the second one, and the tenth one.
Just so the example might make,
idiomatically,
a little bit more sense as you look at it.
So, good?
Okay.
>> Aaron Frost: Okay, so
something you can do.
In the past, if we swapped variables, so
given that I've got these two variables,
a is 1, b is 2, in the past,
I needed a temp variable.
So go ahead and swap these things, right?
That's how we would do it normally, right?
So temp becomes a, a becomes b,
b becomes temp, and
then temp we don't care about anymore.
We kinda throw it away.
Not that we do this a lot besides
homework assignments in school, but
I mean if you needed to for work for
whatever reason, you could.
This is the new way, you put a and
b in an array and then you pull a out and
assign it to the b property and you pull
b out and assign it to the a property.
That make sense, what's going on there?
So that's one way,
I mean that's was one thing.
I don't know if this is as
practical as it looks cool for
a demo, but it is a thing you could do.
[COUGH] So, and again, you can couple
this up inside the method signature.
So if I have a function
called doSomething and
I'm gonna pass it an array of numbers,
I could destructure first and
second and then everything else
can go into the others guy.
That's pretty sweet, right?
So you can just throw it all
up in the method signature.
Again, one thing that I love in
the ES6 and I don't like about now is,
we spend the first few lines
pulling things apart and
setting up the code for
the rest of the method.
And this kind of stuff helps you get
it all up in the method signature.
Someone just OMGeed on the stream.
That's awesome.
So here's nested.
So, if I have this nested array, again,
the variables 1, 3, and 6 are arbitrary.
I'm only using them so you can see
what variable I'm meaning to get.
So I have a three-dimensional
array right here.
One, two, and then this array right here.
And then I have another
three-dimensional array with 3,
4, and then the third bit is 5, 6.
So I wanna pull out one, skip two.
I want to pull out the three into
a variable called three, skip four,
skip five, and grab six.
That make sense?
And you could do that all
on a method signature.
So pretty exciting.
No one else is freaking
out on the live stream, so
that's good.
>> Aaron Frost: Pattern errors.
So this, the first one, line one there,
you could pull x out,
>> Aaron Frost: It's basically gonna throw
the 3 away, it's only gonna pull out the
index sub 0 and assign it to variable x.
So x would equal 2 after this first line.
On this second one, it's actually gonna
pull the 4 out because arrays and
objects, they're indexes
are actually strings, right?
So when I come to this array right here
and I've got something in the 0 spot,
it's gonna go look for that object sub 0,
which, is it gonna find it?
Yeah, because someone
made a property called 0,
which is a really smart
thing to do in a map, right?
Anyway, it would find it and
it would assign that to 4.
So, would this work?
Unfortunately, that would work, yeah.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Aaron Frost: And then if you try to
pull x, y, and z out of it.
If you try and pull three out and
the array's only got two,
you're gonna throw an error.
Make sense?
>> Aaron Frost: Is that what you thought
would happen,
after what we talked about earlier?
If you try and pull out z and
it's not there.
We all, kind of, it was like,
it's not gonna be very forgiving
unless I throw a question mark, right?
Okay, so here's some refutable stuff.
So that first line is the same
exact thing we just looked at,
where it was gonna throw an error.
But we just refuted the whole
entire pattern and now we're fine.
So x is 1, y is 2, and z is undefined.
Which is, hopefully,
what you guys thought it was gonna do
after my expert explanation of patterns.
And then the second
line is the same thing,
except for instead of refuting all of it,
you're just refuting the third variable.